[Born to Be Alive]
[Episode 28]
[Ordinary people on the front line
of anti-poaching efforts in Bolamula]
Officer Bai.
It's great to be young.
Isn't it?
It reminds me of my younger days,
studying at the Sports Institute.
Mr. Meng, you went from a sports student
to the coal mining industry.
That's quite a leap.
What are you laughing at?
I just thought
you didn't seem much like a cop.
But then your cop side
came out again.
What do you mean "like a cop"?
I am a cop.
What made you think
I didn't seem like one?
It shows.
Your thoughts are written
all over your face.
Then do you know
what I'm thinking
right now?
You're thinking about
Duojie's pasture.
You're exactly
like what Bai Chun described.
Did he say I'd come find you
because of the pasture?
No.
He said you're impatient
and straightforward.
Seems like he was right.
You don't beat around the bush at all.
I'm not going back.
Go back yourself if you want.
I'm not going anywhere.
It's comfortable living here.
It's just going back to the city
for a few days.
I've arranged everything.
Sangba will pick you up tomorrow.
The pasture hasn't been
peaceful lately.
I'm worried someone might cause trouble.
Did you get into a fight again?
That's the fifth time this month.
You just have nothing to do at home.
Do a job for me tomorrow.
Herd ten sheep to the Mountain Patrol.
You just want the sheep and I
to stay there, don't you?
How did you know?
I told your mom
not to tell you yet.
Dad.
I stopped fighting a long time ago.
There's a dispute on this pasture.
Someone wants us to move out.
We might not be able to protect it.
Then let me stay.
We lost him.
We can't lose
his pasture.
Dad.
I didn't expect you to ride so well,
Mr. Meng.
I didn't expect
you wouldn't go easy on me at all.
I did go easy on you.
I admit defeat.
Do you ride often?
I used to.
But after moving to the city,
I rode less.
I've always wanted to bring my kid
to ride horses,
but they're not interested.
Boy or girl?
Girl.
She's ten years old this year.
When I was her age,
I was already a good rider.
I'd go out with my classmates
to pick up yak dung.
There was no heating back then.
Yak dung was our treasure.
When I was young,
Grandma told me
that yak dung has over 60 names.
I realized
their love for yak dung
is different
from ours.
They cherish yak dung
not just because
it provides heat,
but out of
respect to the nature.
Let alone yak dung,
even a stone
on the grassland
is precious
in their eyes.
It can't be moved casually.
Because
it doesn't belong to anyone.
They are part
of nature.
But Tibetans
also use stones
to build houses.
I know
the story of County Mayor Duojie.
and what your Mountain Patrol
did in Bolamula.
That’s why
I think you guys are heroes.
Because you are
going against nature.
We aren't going against it.
We are protecting it.
I don't mean nature,
but an
unchangeable trend.
Development is the trend.
We are all part of it.
This isn't something
one person can decide.
I think
we still held onto
something.
This is
the result of our persistence.
If we hadn't
been so persistent back then,
Bolamula would have already
become a large mining base.
Officer Bai,
I know for you,
this place has a different meaning.
This is Duojie's pasture.
That's why you tried so hard
to save this place.
But,
have you misunderstood something?
Although I said you are heroes,
that's a separate matter.
I am a business person.
My first priority is
Xinhai's interests.
You want to talk about interests?
Then let me ask you a question.
Why didn't Chenlong
develop this place?
What do you think?
Chenlong's operators
aren't fools.
The contract has a term limit.
Of course, they're looking for the pasture
with the highest development value
to start construction on.
But this pasture
has been put on hold for so long
without being put to use.
The reason is simply that
it's not cost-effective enough.
You should know this
better than I do.
I know
you were given a task by your boss.
But even as a layman
in the coal mining industry,
I feel this deal isn't worth it.
I wonder, President Meng,
what do you think?
Even if
you complete the acquisition,
for you personally,
will taking back such a piece of pasture
really bring you
significant benefits?
All done.
Highland barley pizza.
I invented it myself.
It's delicious.
I added highland barley,
butter, and yak meat.
Let me cut it for you.
Okay.
Zhacuo,
could I trouble you
to toast this for me?
Go and toast it.
Okay.
President Meng,
I still hope
you can give up on acquiring
this pasture.
Let's take a step back.
Even if you do acquire it,
at best,
you'll just use it to pile up coal slag.
Xinhai's bid
isn't something
you can easily match, right?
What do you say?
Okay, it's toasted.
Thank you.
You toasted it so quickly.
Was it fast?
It's nothing.
No need.
This time,
the favour you owe me
will also be hard to repay.
It smells good.
Aren't you eating?
It feels like after all these years,
this plain bun
still tastes the same.
It's tasty.
Mr. Meng,
do you mean
you won't acquire it?
Officer Bai,
are we now
officially acquainted?
I told you last time.
Call me Bai Ju.
Bai Ju.
Mr. Meng.
I wore the prettiest dress
and walked down the corridor.
Dad took a photo of me to check in.
I hope Mom, Dad, and I
can always be like little yellow ducks,
floating on the water,
and never sinking.
A red double-decker bus.
Sitting in the front row
on the upper deck.
That way, we can tour
the whole provincial capital.
Maybe
we can see the road
Dad takes to work.
You...
Shao Zhuling, what are you doing?
Why aren't you sleeping?
You scared me.
You're the scary one, okay?
Crouched by the bedside
late at night.
I was afraid you'd catch a cold.
So I was tucking you in.
What are you doing?
Acting in a TV drama?
You're my daughter.
Can't I touch you?
Do you know
you have a heavy hand?
You woke me up.
Liar.
You weren't asleep at all.
Mom.
Your date today...
why did it take so long?
I've been waiting for you.
Don't listen to your grandma.
I didn't go on a date.
Why were you waiting for me?
Teach me how to fight.
I mean self-defense.
Why do you want to learn self-defense?
What else is it for?
To defend myself.
Okay.
I'll show you a thing or two.
Self-defense.
First, poke the eyes.
-Poke the eyes.
-Kick the leg.
Kick the leg.
Right. Do it again for me.
Poke the eyes, kick the leg.
Alright, alright.
Stop kicking.
Good job, sweetie.
You kicked really high.
Alright,
go to sleep now.
Sleep.
Scoot over.
You're pushing me off.
Mom.
Do you like that uncle?
Then do you like the big city?
Did your dad tell you?
A little bit.
So what do you think?
Dad says
the provincial capital is great.
But I still want to
stay with you.
Assistant Bai.
Are you busy?
You scared me.
What did you call me?
Come on,
stop pretending.
Meng Yaohui is transferring you
to the Group
to be the General Manager's assistant.
Everyone knows about it.
What are you talking about?
Nothing is set in stone yet.
Mr. Meng has been swamped lately.
He asked me to come learn the ropes,
and take some of the load off him.
If you ask me,
it's really meaningless.
Being a manager at the mine,
at least makes you
an independent legal entity.
Running your own show.
is much freer
than begging for scraps behind him.
It sounds impressive, too.
At least it's a...
"Chief" title.
Being an assistant...
It's a step backward.
What is your purpose here?
I'm not looking for you.
I'm looking for your boss.
Where is Meng Yaohui?
He went out on business.
What for?
What a question.
Does he have to report to me
about what he's doing?
Wu.
Wu, put that down.
I want to learn a thing or two too.
I also want to be an assistant.
Put it down, Wu.
Manager Bai!
The blaster and the coal mining team
are fighting!
You'd better go take a look.
What happened?
The mining team thinks
the blasting holes
are too close to their equipment.
But Yu
refuses to change position,
so the two sides started scuffling.
Go take a look.
Aren't... aren't you leaving?
You go ahead.
I'll stay here
and wait for Meng.
Let's go.
[Western Evening News]
Tianduo Mayor Wang's secretary
called me personally.
He spoke very highly
of your report.
No, no.
You flatter me, sir.
People like me,
always choose topics
that interest us.
I always cause trouble for the paper,
and in the end,
I rely on you to cover for me.
I know that.
Why are you
criticizing yourself?
What trouble have you caused now?
No, no, no.
I'm just being honest.
Just being honest.
You kid.
Here's the thing.
I've discussed it with the President.
You've been in the Investigation Office
for quite a few years.
Li is retiring
in the second half of the year.
We want you to take over
as the Director
of the Investigation Office.
No...
That... that's not right.
It's really not right, Chief.
There's nothing wrong with it.
In terms of seniority and ability,
this position should be yours.
No, it's just...
I can't handle it.
I really can't.
Ever since I started working,
I've been out in the field.
I take creative leave by months.
I've barely ever sat
in this office.
What's so hard about that?
From now on, you'll be stationed
at headquarters.
Let your subordinates
handle the field missions.
Help the agency
train some new recruits.
Did you get told off?
Look at that face.
It's obviously nothing good.
I'm getting a promotion
and will be your boss.
Is that a good thing?
No.
When an eagle gets old,
it gets locked in a cage
to learn how to squawk like a parrot.
Do you think that will work?
Why do you have such a sharp tongue?
The Editor-in-Chief
meant well.
You think this is sharp?
You've handled
much worse from me.
By the way,
your phone rang just now.
I think it's a good thing.
Hello?
I didn't hear it ringing.
Go ahead.
Come over when you have time.
Regarding Lingling's schooling,
we need to discuss it further.
Captain.
Let's go.
Okay.
Sure, sure.
-Well…
-That’s it.
I'll buy the cake from last time
for Lingling again.
Buy another one for me.
I'm going to ask the Editor-in-Chief
for leave.
If Lingling
transfers to a school
in the provincial capital,
what are your plans?
Here's what I think.
Since she
has one year left of elementary school,
my suggestion is
that she transfers
after she graduates.
Otherwise,
once she gets to a new school
and adapts to the new environment,
she'll graduate
and start middle school right away.
She'll face another adjustment period.
For her,
that might not be a good thing.
I really can't bear to leave
my good friends in my class.
Right?
In that case,
I'll also have time
to check out
the middle schools
in the provincial capital first.
We need to communicate in advance
which school
can accept her student file.
If she's going,
she should go to the best one,
right?
If I were to attend
a bottom-tier school there,
it would be better to stay here
and attend a key city school.
Better to be a big fish in a small pond.
I agree.
We didn't collude on this.
There's no need.
No.
What about the child's
living arrangements?
As for living arrangements,
that's even less of a worry.
Her grandparents
have been complaining to me every day
since they retired
that they don't get to see Lingling.
They're hoping she can move there.
They have endless energy
and are more than willing
to take care of her.
I wasn't asking about the elderly.
I meant,
what are your personal plans?
If Lingling goes to
the provincial capital,
I won't be doing field work anymore.
That's great.
Shao is getting promoted.
-Mom.
-I…
Don't listen to his nonsense.
I could say
pretty words like that too.
It's really not just pretty words.
The chief editor just talked to me.
He wants to promote me
to Director of the Investigation Office.
I haven't said yes yet.
If Lingling comes
to the provincial capital,
then I won't need to hesitate.
Right, Mom?
Let's do that then.
From now on,
we'll rent a place near the school
and I'll go keep her company.
Mom,
you're coming with me too?
I'm telling you in advance,
if you want to go to those
sightseeing corridors
or viral spots in the capital,
go ask your dad.
I'm not going with you, okay?
So, is there anything
I can do to help?
Like writing
a transfer application for you?
You think you're the only one
who can write?
Shao,
come here.
Help me bring out
that plate of fruit.
Sure thing, Mom.
Who's your mom?
I'll go.
Let's keep our accounts separate.
We mother and daughter
are a separate matter.
Shao,
come have dinner
here tonight.
I'm making lamb dumplings.
I'm going to buy some meat.
No, don't.
I... I'll go buy it.
Come, Lingling.
Come with Dad.
There's also a cake
that I left in the car.
-We’re going.
-Isn’t the cake
really hard to order?
I reserved it.
How else could I get it?
Save a bite for me later.
Have you really thought this through?
I'll see how he behaves first.
If you two can
compromise for the child,
he stops doing field work,
and you transfer
to the provincial capital.
So that during Lingling's childhood,
both parents are present.
That would be good for the child.
But back then, you
raised the four of us all by yourself.
Aren't we
doing fine now?
That's just what you think.
But have you ever thought about
whether I was fine?
It's because
I know that feeling,
that I don't want you
to go through it again.
Do you think there's still a chance
for you and Shao?
Mom.
This isn't like when
you made me go on blind dates.
Whose side are you on?
Of course,
I'm on your side.
I just want you to be happy.
Here we go again.
I'll go help you with the dough.
Talk to me properly.
Tell me,
can you and Shao
make the broken mirror whole again?
Mom.
There is no such thing
as making a broken mirror whole.
A broken mirror
cannot be made whole.
Don't be so absolute.
How do you know
it's impossible?
The so-called "broken mirror made whole"
is just an illusion.
It comes down to three scenarios:
either
it was never broken,
or
there was no mirror,
it was never made whole.
Which scenario do you think
Shao Yunfei and I are in?
And then?
What did you say then?
What could I say?
That tongue twister of hers
completely confused me
right on the spot.
Bai Ju has been extraordinary
since she was a child.
She can shoot
and enter the Uninhabited Zone.
Now,
she has a good head on her shoulders.
In relationships,
she never gets the short end of the stick.
She's not easily fooled.
She just
has a sharp tongue,
but her heart is softer than anyone's.
Sometimes,
ignorance is bliss.
Even if she's a bit muddled,
she manages to live a good life.
Children have their own destinies.
Right now,
we can't help with anything anymore.
Even if we give advice,
they might not listen.
We just need to
stay healthy
and not be a burden to the kids.
That's enough.
That makes sense.
But
about things that don't matter,
I haven't worried any less.
Lin is back.
No wonder the whole hallway
smells like moxibustion.
What are you chatting about?
Zhang said
Bai Ju is being transferred
to the provincial capital.
That's a good thing.
Didn't Shi Long
want to promote her
a long time ago?
She didn't agree.
Why
did she suddenly
come around?
It was her friends
from the Mountain Patrol,
whose words carry weight.
They persuaded her.
Plus,
Duojie's pasture
was saved recently.
And that put her mind at ease.
So she thought
she'd take a step forward.
What happened
to Duojie's pasture?
You don't know?
Zhacuo.
County Mayor Lin,
Director Zhang,
Ms. Zhu.
Why are you here?
Zhacuo,
everyone misses
your beef noodles.
Do you welcome us?
Welcome.
Of course.
Ms. Zhu,
you came all this way personally.
Did my little rascal
cause trouble at school again?
Zhacuo's Dad,
he's doing great.
He's first in every subject.
If he goes a day without fighting,
I thank the heavens.
Here.
Cover up.
Thank you, Ms. Kang.
Riga,
you're looking well.
Hello, Riga.
Dad,
didn't you keep talking about
County Mayor Lin?
County Mayor Lin is here to see you.
Traitor.
This old man.
He thinks everyone is County Mayor Lin.
Now that you're actually here,
he doesn't recognize you.
I won't sell
my Cordyceps to you.
Okay.
It seems
I need to visit more often.
Please, come in.
Manager Bai,
you were looking for me?
I remember I had
a Chenlong contract here.
Did you give it to Mr. Meng?
No.
The pasture acquisition documents,
I haven't touched them.
Wu, put that down.
Wu.
I want to learn too.
I also want to be an assistant.
Go get Director Wu.
He went out
and took a few people
from the security team.
Where did he go?
Dad still
remembers County Mayor Lin.
He always talks about
the animal husbandry tax.
He says County Mayor Lin on horseback
is the benefactor who cut taxes.
That wasn't
my achievement alone.
People from Xinhai came to see you?
How was it resolved?
Very well.
Mr. Meng from Xinhai
is very reasonable.
I treated him to some buns.
Bai Ju kept hovering around
and bragging.
He got dizzy from the talk
and the food,
so he agreed not to take back the pasture.
I heard
you bought a house in the city
and settled down.
But all these years,
you've been guarding this place still.
It must be hard on you.
The outside world has changed too much.
I don't know how to do anything
but herd cattle and sheep.
Here,
I can still guard the home
for the Captain.
Watching over the pasture every day,
I already feel very happy.
From now on,
we will
visit often.
If you need any help,
just let us know.
Thank you, Ms. Kang.
Yeah,
we still want to taste
what kind of bun is so magical
that it makes people
willingly change their minds
after eating it.
Then there's nothing good left to eat.
Since you're here,
I definitely have to treat you
with something fancier.
I'll make highland barley pizza.
Highland barley pizza?
What's that sound?
Construction trucks are here.
I'll go take a look.
Where are you from?
Why are you running over my pasture?
We are from the Xinhai Group.
Sign the contract,
and we'll wire you the money immediately.
Sign what?
You trampled the pasture
and even threatened me.
I'm going to call the police.
Whatever.
This pasture of yours
belongs to Xinhai.
I'm here to take it back.
Whoever comes
has to acknowledge this contract.
Mr. Meng already promised me
he wouldn't take it.
How can you
go back on your word?
What did he tell you?
He told me...
Whatever he told you is void.
I'm the one in charge now.
Sign the contract.
I'm not talking to you.
I want to talk to Mr. Meng.
I'm giving you two choices now.
One.
Sign the contract,
and you'll get every penny
of the relocation fee.
Two.
I'll tear down the house for you.
Bring your cows
and get lost today.
The pasture is not mine.
If you keep this up...
If it's not yours,
why are you arguing with me?
Make a call.
Get the person in charge over here.
I am the person in charge.
What do you want to talk to me about?
This pasture isn't yours, is it?
I think at most
you can only say
"Tashi Delek."
The pasture belongs to my friend.
You can talk to me.
Old man,
I advise you to stay away.
This is none of your business.
Don't get hurt later
and try to scam me.
You're from Xinhai?
Yes.
Who is your supervisor?
Who allowed you
to make such a scene here?
Grandpa,
I advise you
to step aside.
If your family
had any strong connections,
I wouldn't be
standing here today.
Guys.
Get to work. Push.
Don't you dare.
Move aside!
Don't fight!
Move!
Zhacuo! Zhacuo!
Get back!
Let go! Let go!
Back off!
Let go!
-Move!
-Stop! Stop!
Chairman.
Why are you here?
Don't worry, Chairman.
I've arranged everything here.
Mayor Lin.
I'm late.
You are a bit late.
Is this how
Xinhai's integration operations work?
Is this what you call
social responsibility?
I am terribly sorry.
It is my management failure.
I'll handle it right away.
You called them here.
Drive them back.
Okay.
Who asked you to meddle?
Who gave you permission to go?
If it weren't for
Meng Yaohui telling me today,
about this matter,
how would you end it?
I'm asking you, how would you fix it?
Do you have a brain?
Why didn't you check before acting
whose pasture that was?
That belongs to Duojie,
Lin Peisheng's old colleague.
Lin Peisheng,
the Vice Mayor of Tianduo.
You don't recognize him,
and even called him "Old Man"?
I think you are the one
acting like a big shot.
No one told me who he was.
He is the Mayor.
He's on the news every day.
You're uneducated and don't read papers.
Can't you at least watch TV?
Regarding the pasture integration,
why I didn't let you get involved,
don't you have a clue?
I was afraid you'd be brainless
and screw this up for me.
But you just rushed in
to cause trouble for me.
Chairman.
I handled it wrong.
I was just anxious
to share your burden.
Then regarding that piece of land,
how do you plan to handle it?
Handle what?
What is there to handle?
I want to handle you.
Can we touch that land?
That land is off-limits.
Idiot.
You...
even though you are the Vice President,
if it's not your business,
just stay out of it.
Yes.
Go back and handle the mess
at Mine No. 2.
Yes.
If something like this
happens again,
you...
why don't you be the Chairman?
Please, don't.
We wouldn't dare.
Hello?
Yes.
I've already taught him a lesson.
Don't worry.
I'll have someone
finalize the contract immediately.
The old contract
is void.
No one will
bother them again.
[Kunlun Restaurant]
Tashi said
the pasture issue is resolved.
To thank everyone,
this meal is on him.
So you're not the one paying.
It's just a meal.
No need to be this happy.
Spit it out.
What else?
Tashi also said,
to thank me,
he waived my
pasture contract fees for a year.
What did you do
to get your fees waived?
If not for my buns,
President Meng wouldn't have changed his mind.
Right?
Right.
Come on.
Yeah.
Let's have a drink.
Old Han.
Come on.
Let's eat.
What are you doing?
About what happened before.
You don't have to agree with me.
But
I'll keep doing it.
If you cause trouble again,
I'll arrest you again.
Thanks.
For what?
As for the pasture,
you don't need to thank me.
That pasture belongs to everyone.
Right.
It belongs to everyone.
Come on.
To the pasture.
Cheers.
Come on.
Come on, cheers.
To the pasture.
Cheers.
Help yourself.
When I was doing time,
during yard time,
guess who I met.
Weren't you
with me every day?
After six months,
you and Zhacuo
were transferred to the Second Prison.
So, who did you see?
Ma Yizhong.
Why is it you again?
He recognized me
right away.
He ran up to me
and said one thing.
"You're getting what you deserve."
Then he just stared at me,
without saying another word.
Since then,
whenever we met,
he'd look at me from a distance,
shake his head, and walk away.
That felt
worse than a beating.
At that time, I thought,
after I got out,
I had to find the Captain
and ask him
if what we did was right.
It's been 17 years.
From the airport to the county town,
I know every step by heart.
I've been looking for him day and night.
Why can't I find Captain?
Are you done searching?
I should be done this year.
Didn't you say last year
that you'd be done?
I'm afraid if I finish this year,
I won't know
what to do with myself.